README.md, before:

# ZED Backup

A simple utility to automatically backup and sync files to a private GitHub Gist.

## Description

ZED Backup is a Python-based tool that allows you to backup a text file to a GitHub Gist. It creates a new private Gist on the first run and updates the same Gist on subsequent runs, providing a simple way to backup and version your text content online.

## Features

- Creates a private GitHub Gist for secure storage
- Automatically updates the same Gist on subsequent runs
- Simple configuration through environment variables or .env file
- Tracks the Gist ID for continuous updates

## Prerequisites

- Python 3.12+
- A GitHub account
- A GitHub personal access token with the `gist` scope

## Installation

1. Clone this repository or download the script:

```bash
git clone https://github.com/yourusername/zed_backup.git
cd zed_backup
```

2. Install the required dependencies:

This repo relies on the `uv` binary from Astral. You can install it by following their documentation [here](https://github.com/astral-sh/uv?tab=readme-ov-file#installation)

Then run:

```bash
uv sync
```

## Setup

1. Create a GitHub personal access token:
   - Go to GitHub → Settings → Developer settings → Personal access tokens
   - Click "Generate new token"
   - Give it a name and select the `gist` scope
   - Copy the generated token

2. Set up the environment variables:

   Create a `.env` file in the same directory as the script with the following content:
   ```
   GITHUB_TOKEN=your_github_token_here
   ```

   Alternatively, set the environment variable directly in your shell:
   ```bash
   export GITHUB_TOKEN=your_github_token_here
   ```

3. Configure the file to backup:

   By default, the script backs up a file named `~/.config/zed/settings.json` in the same directory. To change this, modify the `FILE_TO_UPLOAD` variable in the script.

## Usage

1. Ensure your file to backup (default: `~/.config/zed/settings.json`) exists and contains the content you want to backup.

2. Run the script:

```bash
uv run python zed_backup.py
```

3. On the first run, the script will create a new Gist and store the Gist ID in `gist_id.txt`. On subsequent runs, it will update the existing Gist.

## How It Works

1. The script checks if a `gist_id.txt` file exists
2. If it doesn't exist, the script creates a new private Gist with your file content
3. If it exists, the script updates the Gist specified by the ID in the file
4. The script stores the Gist ID in `gist_id.txt` for future updates

## Customization

You can modify the following variables in the script to customize its behavior:

- `GIST_ID_FILE`: The file where the Gist ID is stored (default: `gist_id.txt`)
- `FILE_TO_UPLOAD`: The file to backup (default: `~/.config/zed/settings.json`)

The script will also attempt to load a `.env` file from the same directory the script is located in.

## Automating

You can automate the backup process by setting up a cron job or a scheduled task to run the script at regular intervals.

For defining a cron (most linux and mac systems), you can configure the cron job by running:

```bash
# Every hour at the top of the hour
0 * * * * /path/to/uv run python /path/to/zed_backup.py >> /path/to/zed_backup.log 2>&1
```

## Troubleshooting

- **"GITHUB_TOKEN is not set"**: Make sure you've set up the GitHub token correctly in the .env file or as an environment variable.
- **Error creating/updating Gist**: Check your GitHub token permissions and ensure it has the `gist` scope.
- **File not found**: Ensure the file specified in `FILE_TO_UPLOAD` exists in the same directory as the script.

## Contributing

Contributions are welcome! Please feel free to submit a Pull Request.

## License

This project is licensed under the MIT License - see the LICENSE file for details.

Commit message:

Add tests, update readme, and deps for tests

README.md, after:

# ZED Backup

A simple utility to automatically backup and sync files to a private GitHub Gist.

## Description

ZED Backup is a Python-based tool that allows you to backup a text file to a GitHub Gist. It creates a new private Gist on the first run and updates the same Gist on subsequent runs, providing a simple way to backup and version your text content online.

## Features

- Creates a private GitHub Gist for secure storage
- Automatically updates the same Gist on subsequent runs
- Simple configuration through environment variables or .env file
- Tracks the Gist ID for continuous updates

## Prerequisites

- Python 3.12+
- A GitHub account
- A GitHub personal access token with the `gist` scope

## Installation

1. Clone this repository or download the script:

```bash
git clone https://github.com/yourusername/zed_backup.git
cd zed_backup
```

2. Install the required dependencies:

This repo relies on the `uv` binary from Astral. You can install it by following their documentation [here](https://github.com/astral-sh/uv?tab=readme-ov-file#installation)

Then run:

```bash
uv sync --no-dev
```

## Setup

1. Create a GitHub personal access token:
   - Go to GitHub → Settings → Developer settings → Personal access tokens
   - Click "Generate new token"
   - Give it a name and select the `gist` scope
   - Copy the generated token

2. Set up the environment variables:

   Create a `.env` file in the same directory as the script with the following content:
   ```
   GITHUB_TOKEN=your_github_token_here
   ```

   Alternatively, set the environment variable directly in your shell:
   ```bash
   export GITHUB_TOKEN=your_github_token_here
   ```

3. Configure the file to backup:

   By default, the script backs up a file named `~/.config/zed/settings.json` in the same directory. To change this, modify the `FILE_TO_UPLOAD` variable in the script.

## Usage

1. Ensure your file to backup (default: `~/.config/zed/settings.json`) exists and contains the content you want to backup.

2. Run the script:

```bash
uv run python zed_backup.py
```

3. On the first run, the script will create a new Gist and store the Gist ID in `gist_id.txt`. On subsequent runs, it will update the existing Gist.

## How It Works

1. The script checks if a `gist_id.txt` file exists
2. If it doesn't exist, the script creates a new private Gist with your file content
3. If it exists, the script updates the Gist specified by the ID in the file
4. The script stores the Gist ID in `gist_id.txt` for future updates

## Customization

You can modify the following variables in the script to customize its behavior:

- `GIST_ID_FILE`: The file where the Gist ID is stored (default: `gist_id.txt`)
- `FILE_TO_UPLOAD`: The file to backup (default: `~/.config/zed/settings.json`)

The script will also attempt to load a `.env` file from the same directory the script is located in.

## Automating

You can automate the backup process by setting up a cron job or a scheduled task to run the script at regular intervals.

For defining a cron (most linux and mac systems), you can configure the cron job by running:

```bash
# Every hour at the top of the hour
0 * * * * /path/to/uv run python /path/to/zed_backup.py >> /path/to/zed_backup.log 2>&1
```

## Troubleshooting

- **"GITHUB_TOKEN is not set"**: Make sure you've set up the GitHub token correctly in the .env file or as an environment variable.
- **Error creating/updating Gist**: Check your GitHub token permissions and ensure it has the `gist` scope.
- **File not found**: Ensure the file specified in `FILE_TO_UPLOAD` exists in the same directory as the script.

## Contributing

Contributions are welcome! Please feel free to submit a Pull Request.

## Testing

There are some mocked out tests for this project that can help ensure the script is working as expected. To run the tests, do the following:

```bash
# Sync all dependencies
uv sync --all-groups

# Run the tests
uv run pytest --cov=zed_backup -xvs test_zed_backup.py

# The `-x` flag stops the test run on the first failure, `-v` provides verbose output, and `-s` allows print statements to be displayed.
```

## License

This project is licensed under the MIT License - see the LICENSE file for details.
